Update focal CN file prep to use exons again and cover the consensus SEG case (#479)
AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis: analyses/focal-cn-file-preparation/README.md

### Scripts and notebooks

* `01-add-ploidy-cnvkit.Rmd` - The two CNV callers, CNVkit and ControlFreeC, do not handle ploidy in the same way ([A Note on Ploidy](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis/blob/de661fbe740717472fcf01c7d9b74fe1b946aece/doc/data-formats.md#a-note-on-ploidy) in the Data Formats documentation). 
  This notebook adds the ploidy inferred via ControlFreeC to the CNVkit data and adds a status column that defines gain and loss broadly.
  (Note that [the logic around sex chromosomes in males when ploidy = 3 leaves something to be desired](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis/pull/259#discussion_r345354403)).

> * `02-add-ploidy-consensus.Rmd` - This is very similar to the CNVkit file prep.

Reviewer: I am unsure what this is referring to:`similar to CNVKit file prep` can you put a link to what this is referring to?

Author: I added the `01` notebook file name here to make it more clear.

However, there are instances in the consensus SEG file where `copy.num` is `NA` which are removed.
See the notebook for more information.

> * `03-prepare-cn-file.R` - This script performs the ranges to annotation mapping using the GENCODE v27 GTF included via the data download step; it takes the ControlFreeC file or a SEG (e.g., CNVkit, consensus SEG) file prepared with `00-add-ploidy-cnvkit.Rmd` as input.

Reviewer: Unsure that what I put in this suggestion is right, but I see 00-add-ploidy-cnvkit.Rmd doesn't exist anymore. 
```suggestion
* `03-prepare-cn-file.R` - This script performs the ranges to annotation mapping using the GENCODE v27 GTF included via the data download step; it takes the ControlFreeC file or a SEG (e.g., CNVkit, consensus SEG) file prepared with `01-add-ploidy-cnvkit.Rmd` and  `02-add-ploidy-cnvkit.Rmd`as input.
```

  The mapping is limited to _exons_. 
  Mapping to cytobands is performed with the [`org.Hs.eg.db`](https://doi.org/doi:10.18129/B9.bioc.org.Hs.eg.db) package.
  A table with the following columns is returned:
  
  | biospecimen_id | status | copy_number | ploidy | ensembl | gene_symbol | cytoband |
  |----------------|--------|-------------|--------|---------|-------------|---------|
  
* `rna-expression-validation.R` - This script examines RNA-seq expression levels (RSEM FPKM) of genes that are called as deletions. 

> It is not currently run via the shell script.

Reviewer: What's the plan for this script then? Is it being dropped or revamped or is it supposed to be called somewhere else?

Author: Plan is to rework it #387
